
Hello Object World!

From this session onwards, problems will be solved using object oriented
programming in C++.

Exercise 1
----------

Create a file string.cpp with the following class AND its implementation.

    #define MAX_LEN    100

    class String
    {
        char data[MAX_LEN];

    public:
        String();
        String(const char *s);

        String duplicate(void);
    };

The String() constructor should initialize 'data' to an empty string.

The String(const char *s) constructor should copy 's' into 'data'.

The 'duplicate' function should create another String object which is an
exact copy of this object, and return it.

You can test using 'make test_string'.


Exercise 2
----------

Create a file simplestack.h with the following class declaration.

    #define MAX_ELEMENTS    100

    class SimpleStack
    {
        char arr[MAX_ELEMENTS];
        int top;

    public:
        SimpleStack();

        int push(char c);
        int pop(char *c);
        int empty(void);
    }

The 'push' function should push 'c' onto the stack. It should return 1 on 
success, 0 otherwise (in case stack is full).

The 'pop' function should pop the topmost character in stack and store it
in 'c'. It should return 1 on success, 0 otherwise (stack is empty).

The 'empty' function should return 1 if stack is empty, 0 otherwise.

You can test using 'make test_simplestack'.


ABSTRACT CLASSES IN C++
-----------------------

There are two problems with the SimpleStack above.

    1) The user of the SimpleStack is also aware of its implementation 
       details (ie, the stack is implemented using an array).
    2) In case the user wants to use a better stack implementation (say
       ListStack which is implemeted using linked list), the user has
       to include "liststack.h" and recompile his code.

There is no way an user can user another stack implementation without
recompiling his code. This is where Abstract Data Types come in.

Abstract Data Types (ADT) are defined in C++ using abstract classes, ie,
classes which have ONLY pure virtual functions. Abstract classes declare ALL
functions as pure virtual functions, and DO NOT declare any data. In other 
words, it does not reveal any implementation details to the user.

A Concrete implementation of an abstract class should derive from the abstract
class and MUST implement ALL pure virtual functions declared in the abstract
class.

A user of the abstract class typically uses a pointer to an abstract class, 
which actually points to an object of a concrete implementation. But the user
is totally unaware of the concrete class or its implementation. So how can the
user obtain a pointer to the abstract class, without knowing about the
concrete class?

This problem is usually solved by declaring a static 'create' method in the
abstract class, which should create an object (of derived class) and return
its pointer. This static methos is generally called the factory method.
The concrete class will implement this static 'create' factory method
by creating an object of the concrete class, and returning pointer to this
object.


Exercise 3
----------

You are provided with an abstract class Stack in the file stack.h.
Open it and see before proceeding.

Create a file arraystack.h with the following class.

    #define MAX_ELEMENTS    100

    class ArrayStack : public Stack
    {
        char arr[MAX_ELEMENTS];
        int top;

    public:
        ArrayStack();

        int push(char c);
        int pop(char *c);
        int empty(void);

    };

Create a file arraystack.cpp with the implementation of the above class.

The file should also define the static factory method of Stack as follows.

    Stack * Stack::create(void);

This function should instantiate an object of type ArrayStack and return it.

You can test by using 'make test_arraystack'.


