
Exercise 1
----------

Create a file ex1.c with the following C function.

    int equal_interval(int arr[], int size);

The function takes an array 'arr' along with its size, and checks whether the
numbers in the array occur at equal intervals. For example, the numbers
1, 2, 3, 4, 5 occur at equal intervals of 1. The numbers 4, 7, 10, 13  occur
at equal intervals of 3. The numbers 5, 7, 10, 12 DO NOT occur at equal
intervals.

The function should check each element of array and return 1 if all numbers
in the array occur at equal intervals. It should return 0 otherwise.

You can compile and test using 'make test_ex1'.

Examples:
    Input: arr = { 1, 2, 3, 4 }, size = 4
    Output: 1

    Input: arr = { 4, 7, 10, 13, 16 }, size = 5
    Output: 1

    Input: arr = { 4, 7, 10, 14, 16 }, size = 5
    Output: 0


STACK
-----

A stack is a data structure that supports the last-in-first-out functionality.
The last data item that enters the stack is the first data item that can be
retrieved from the stack.

It supports two basic operations: push and pop. The push operation stores
the data item in the stack, and the pop operation returns the last pushed
data item. The next pop returns the previosuly pushed data item, and so on.

A stack is typically implemented using an array of elements and an integer
that stores the array index of the top-of-stack. Push operation would store
the element at index 'top-of-stack', and increment top-of-stack. Pop operation
would decrement the 'top-of-stack' and return the element at index top-of-stack.

A stack typically has a 'size' which specifies the maximum number of elements
that can be stored in the stack. A stack is considered empty if it has no
elements, and is considered full it has 'size' elements.


Exercise 2
----------

Create a file stack.c which implements a 50 character stack, ie, a stack of
50 characters. The stack should support the following functions.

    int push(char c);
    int pop(char *c);

The 'push' function should push the character 'c' onto top of the stack.
It should return 1 on success, 0 on failure (ie, stack is full).

The 'pop' function should decrement the top of the stack and store the top 
most character in the stack in the pointer 'c'. It should return 1 on success,
or 0 on failure (ie, stack is empty).

You can compile and test using 'make test_stack'.

[Note: The array and top-of-stack can be declared as globals for now]


Exercise 3
----------

 *** YOU WILL HAVE TO FINISH THE PREVIOUS EXERCISE BEFORE WORKING ON THIS ***

Create a file scan.c with the following C function.

    int scan(const char *str);

The string 'str' will consist of lower case characters [a-z] and single digit
numbers [0-9] ONLY. The function should scan the string char by char. 
Whenever a lower case character is encountered, it should push the character
into the stack. Whenever it encounters a digit 'n', it should pop 'n' elements
from the stack. Once all characters in the string has been scanned, the 
function should return the number of elements in the stack. The number of 
elements in the stack can be calculated from the position of the top of stack.

The file scan.c should contain ONLY the 'scan' function.
The make will reuse the push(), pop() already defined in stack.c. But if you 
try to use push() and pop() without declaring their prototypes, the compiler 
will give an error. Therefore, make sure you declare the prototypes as follows.

extern int push(char c);
extern int pop(char *c);

The top of stack variable (also defined in stack.c) can also be used in scan.c
by declaring its prototype along with the 'extern' keyword.

You can compile and test using 'make test_scan'.

Examples:
    Input: str = "abcd3ab"
    Output: 3

    Input: str = "a1"
    Output: 3 (stack had 3 elements in previous iteration)

    Input: str = "abcdefgh2abcdefgh3ab"
    Output: 16 (stack had 3 elements in previous iteration)

